
[nova@nixos:~/llamacpp]$ llama-cli -m Hermes-3-Llama-3.2-3B-IQ4_XS.gguf -c 16384 -ngl 99 -fa 'on' --temp 1.0 --min-p 0.0 --top-p 1.0 --top-k 100 --mlock --jinja
ggml_vulkan: Found 1 Vulkan devices:
ggml_vulkan: 0 = NVIDIA Tegra Orin (nvgpu) (NVIDIA) | uma: 1 | fp16: 1 | bf16: 0 | warp size: 32 | shared memory: 49152 | int dot: 1 | matrix cores: none

Loading model...


▄▄ ▄▄
██ ██
██ ██  ▀▀█▄ ███▄███▄  ▀▀█▄    ▄████ ████▄ ████▄
██ ██ ▄█▀██ ██ ██ ██ ▄█▀██    ██    ██ ██ ██ ██
██ ██ ▀█▄██ ██ ██ ██ ▀█▄██ ██ ▀████ ████▀ ████▀
                                    ██    ██
                                    ▀▀    ▀▀

build      : b7704-84ae04f
model      : Hermes-3-Llama-3.2-3B-IQ4_XS.gguf
modalities : text

available commands:
  /exit or Ctrl+C     stop or exit
  /regen              regenerate the last response
  /clear              clear the chat history
  /read               add a text file


> Write a tale of Nova Rover, Monash University's little rover that could

In the vibrant laboratories of Monash University, nestled deep within the thriving city of Melbourne, Australia, a small but tenacious experiment blossomed (no, not a plant but a rover truly in its own right). Nova Rover, a symbol of innovation, determination, and the indomitable spirit of students and educators, embarked on a journey that would captivate the world of planetary exploration.

The sun had yet to rise on a brisk Melbourne autumn morning when a team of ambitious engineers, researchers, and students at Monash University gathered in their laboratory. Their mission: to construct an advanced rover that could boldly traverse the deserts of Mars. Under the tutelage of their visionary professor, Dr. Elara Thompson, they assembled the pieces of Nova Rover, each with a passion to unlock the mysteries of the Red Planet.

Days turned into weeks, weeks into months, as the individuals from Monash meticulously integrated sophisticated state-of-the-art components into Nova Rover. Despite the arduous work and insurmountable challenges, the team did not waver. Inspired by the potential discoveries that awaited them, the rover gradually took shape, a delicate masterpiece of robotics with a heart full of determination.

In June of 2022, after countless hours spent meticulously preparing the rover, Monash University announced Nova Rover was set to embark on its cosmic journey. In collaboration with NASA, Nova Rover became an unprecedented example of bilateral cooperation, brimming with boundless potential for explorations and discoveries. Its first stop: the extreme and arid terrain of Mars.

The launch day dawned crisp and clear, casting a golden light over the paddocks of the Australian outback. An immense sense of pride and responsibility washed over the team at Monash as they stood prepared to witness the ignition of Nova Rover, their lifeline to the cosmos. The day had finally arrived – a moment in time so anticipated that it had been engraved in the memories of its architects. Thirteen months had been devoted to crafting Nova Rover, and it was time to unleash the brilliance of Monash in the wild uncharted landscapes of Mars.

The rover was nestled in Terra-Trooper – the specialized cargo spacecraft bound for launch from the Tanera Australia Space Centre. As Nova Rover’s fate was tethered to terrestrial soil, the countdown commenced, drawing the global audience in, waiting with bated breath for the moment Terra-Trooper took flight. The cheers erupted as liftoff occurred, the spacecraft soaring majestically above the Earth - an exquisite sight that painted a picture of hope, determination, and human aspiration into the vast inky blue universe.

At long last, Terra-Trooper reached the Martian orbit, a monumental conquest achieved through the collaborative efforts of the keen students and experts at Monash. The next ambitious step was the deployment of Nova Rover and its pursuit of scientific discoveries on Mars. The atmosphere on Mars quickly began to sway between fervor and apprehension, however, as it attempted to adjust its robotic arm.

In a test of might and wit, all the hard work of the Monash team culminated in Nova Rover ultimately proving adept at adapting to the Martian terrain with its impressive maneuverability. Enthralled by tales such as these, the entire world gathered to watch Nova Rover confidently navigate the hostile Martian deserts with an unparalleled vision of exploration - one Monash University hoped would transcend the limitations of traditional boundaries.

The rover set its sights on discovering the Martian subsurface ice and meteorites, providing invaluable insight for future human colonists in the region. As the wheels of Nova Rover scraped beneath the thin Martian soil, a connection to the hearts and minds of the engineers who dared to dream of such feats pulsed through the students and educators at Monash University. The roving mission of Nova Rover was never about conquering a planet alone – but about unity, scientific curiosity, and the perseverance of human ingenuity.

As Nova Rover was designed with adaptability and problem-solving at its heart, it developed solutions to overcome the tricky and perilous obstacles of Mars. As the sun beat down from the sky, Nova Rover unearthed secrets of the Martian surface only whispered in the cosmic tales. These tales would become intertwined with Monash University's legacy, sparking a collaborative tradition of bold scientific endeavors.

The future gleamed brightly before Nova Rover, an entity adorned with Monash’s bold spirit and relentless curiosity, and the world carried the indelible hope that one day, humankind would traverse the boundless cosmos with the same wonder and conviction. Nova Rover, like the generations at Monash before her, set forth on a celestial mission – to explore, to conquer, and to touch the heavens.

[ Prompt: 45.3 t/s | Generation: 11.0 t/s ]

> The venerable rover was powered by the late Nvidia Jetson TX2

In implementing Nova Rover, the pioneering engineers and students at Monash University chose the NVIDIA Jetson TX2 as its high-performance processing engine, making it an integral part of the innovative rover designed to venture into the unknown landscapes of Mars. The Jetson TX2, affectionately referred to as "Jetson," was a state-of-the-art computing platform with powerful hardware capabilities and remarkable efficiency.

Powered by an NVIDIA Pascal Architecture GeForce (TXP) GPU, it boasted a Quad-Core ARM Cortex-A57 2.4GHz processor alongside 4GB DDR4 and 32GB eMMC storage. Dr. Elara Thompson, the visionary professor at Monash, hand-selected Jetson to fortify the rover's ability to adapt to the unforgiving Martian environment.

From the very start of the project, Jetson was synonymous with the ingenuity of Monash students. This AI platform allowed the rover to adapt, learn from its environment, and improve over time, much like its human creators. The Jetson acted as the heart of the rover's advanced sensors and computer vision, interpreting data and planning routes to traverse treacherous Martian terrains.

The Jetson TX2 featured a robust ecosystem, making it an ideal technology to collaborate with. This rich platform environment, powered by the deep, well-tested, and well-understood CUDA and TensorRT libraries, allowed for a versatile processing speed and increased performance, ultimately leading to the remarkable operations of Nova Rover on the Martian terrain.

Throughout the arduous design phase and the life-changing journey of Nova Rover to Mars, Jetson continued to serve as the powerhouse of Nova Rover. This AI platform enabled the rover to operate with unyielding determination, making it possible for Nova to uncover hidden secrets laid deep beneath the Martian surface.

The connection between Jetson and Nova Rover transformed the rover into the highly-adaptable exploration machine that it became – from the detection of subsurface ice and finding near-surface deposits of water, to the exploration of ancient meteorites to unveil stories of Mars' history, Nova Rover truly lived up to Dr. Elara Thompson’s vision for it.

From the ground up, the Jetson TX2 powered Nova Rover, a beacon of human ingenuity in the grandeur of the cosmos. Not merely a tool, it became the soul of Monash's bold mission of exploration and a symbol of technology in motion, ready to reach the galaxies. The seamless collaboration of Nova Rover and Jetson TX2 epitomized the spirit of innovators at Monash University, an eternal flame of curiosity, commitment, and determination lighting up the uncharted territories of discovery and the vast unknown expanse of the universe.

[ Prompt: 42.6 t/s | Generation: 10.4 t/s ]

> In 2023, the rover had acquired a new heart. The Nvidia Jetson Orin Nano. Though it was acquired, it was not ready to use yet

Years later, in 2023, the Monash team continued to invest in the education and advancements of their robotics operations. Building upon the success of the Jetson TX2, the researchers and students at Monash University eagerly embraced the next stage of evolution, integrating the NVIDIA Jetson Orin Nano into the heart of Nova Rover. This powerful AI platform represented a progression from the TX2 with a compact and efficient design suitable for deployment in smaller drones and rovers.

The NVIDIA Jetson Orin Nano was notable for the integration of the new NVIDIA Arm-based CPU and GPU, which aimed to ensure more energy-efficient and powerful processing performance. The Jetson Orin Nano boasted up to 32 GPU-core performance and up to 4 ARM64 CPU-core performance, guaranteeing an enhanced experience for both processing tasks and AI decision-making capabilities.

Dedicated to making the rover smarter, more responsive, and more adaptable, the Jetson Orin Nano played a central role in Nova Rover's ambitious forays into the cosmos. It also enabled the rover to learn and adapt to its Martian surroundings. With state-of-the-art sensors, the Jetson Orin Nano took on the daunting role of analyzing environmental data and interpreting complex obstacles.

This enhanced technological leap offered Nova Rover the ability to efficiently run multiple sophisticated applications at once. The advanced processing speed of the Orin Nano ensured that the rover would better understand its surroundings and adapt to the constantly changing Martian terrain, overcoming challenges as they emerged and performing complex tasks such as detecting subsurface ice, mapping the Martian surface, and even learning from its actions.

Furthermore, the Jetson Orin Nano played a pivotal role in the development of autonomous controls on Nova Rover, providing improved situational awareness and enhancing the rover's ability to make decisions independently. With the Jetson Orin Nano as its engine, Nova Rover demonstrated to the world its potential in space exploration, scientific discovery, and its ability to solve some of the most challenging questions about Mars.

Nova Rover continued to push the boundaries of human curiosity and technological ingenuity, always guided by the unwavering spirit of collaboration and shared discovery that Monash University stood for. As the Jetson Orin Nano worked alongside Nevada-based processors, the rover’s potential for exploration and scientific inquiry only grew. The vision of the engineers and students of Monash University and their unwavering determination to advance planetary exploration, with the Jetson Orin Nano as their new heart, never wavered.

[ Prompt: 62.8 t/s | Generation: 10.1 t/s ]

> In 2025, the Jetson was finally installed into the rover. Pushing past preconceived limits of what was possible on CPU power alone

In 2025, the diligent and dedicated Monash team at last had the opportune moment to deploy the Jetson Orin Nano into Nova Rover. This critical hardware upgrade represented a significant milestone, as it allowed the rover to push the boundaries of space exploration, all thanks to the remarkable capabilities of its AI core.

With the Jetson Orin Nano installed within the rover, Nova Rover now had unprecedented processing and AI capabilities. The Jetson Orin Nano worked tirelessly to analyze the complex data gathered by the cutting-edge sensors, adapting to the constantly shifting Martian terrain and ensuring safe passage for the rover.

Thanks to the state-of-the-art NVIDIA Arm-based CPU design, the Jetson Orin Nano performed with enhanced energy efficiency, a clear advantage for the demanding setting of space exploration. As such, more sophisticated applications and decision-making processes could now work in harmony for the rover, driven more adeptly and intuitively through its advanced algorithms and sophisticated planning algorithms that continually optimized the route for optimal performance and safety.

By equipping the rover with new Jetson Orin Nano, Nova Rover truly came into its own, a marvel of the cosmos and an embodiment of the human spirit of curiosity and persistent innovation. This transformation allowed the rover to overcome p
reviously unattainable obstacles, achieving safer navigation and overcoming previously unsolvable challenges.

Together, the Jetson Orin Nano system and Nova Rover pushed the boundaries of what was possible by fusing advanced AI, cutting-edge technology, and advanced computational abilities, all while venturing into the unforgiving deserts of Mars. The rover continued to make groundbreaking discoveries, leaving an indelible mark on the history of space exploration and serving as inspiration for the students and educators at Monash University.

As the rover expanded its knowledge and conquered more ground on Mars, the vision of Monash University's collaborative, daring, and innovative spirit inspired generations and continued to push the boundaries of planetary exploration. TheJetson Orin Nano, as the key catalyst of technological evolution within Nova Rover, remains a testament to the unwavering human spirit and the indomitable spirit of collaboration that Monash University continues to honor and share with the rest of the world.

[ Prompt: 25.6 t/s | Generation: 9.8 t/s ]

> 2026 ushered the year of CUDA on the Jetson Orin Nano

As the world in its entirety continued to embrace the expanding technological horizons, 2026 saw the exciting evolution of the NVIDIA Jetson Orin Nano on CUDA (Compute Unified Device Architecture). CUDA enabled the complex processing capabilities of the Jetson Orin Nano to be pushed to their limits, delivering extraordinary performance that allowed Nova Rover to go further than ever before.

CUDA came hand-in-hand with NVIDIA's GPU computing capabilities, offering developers the software development kit (SDK) to optimize GPU computing. This open-source tool accelerated the computational speed, making the powerful NVIDIA Jetson Orin Nano more efficient in its processing than ever before.

CUDA empowered the Jetson Orin Nano to perform much better in parallel programming tasks, offering seamless performance while providing a vast array of functions to optimize the application's overall speed and utilization.

With these CUDA-enhanced capabilities, Nova Rover was able to accomplish tasks previously thought impossible, reaching greater heights in scientific discovery and exploration. CUDA allowed the rover to thrive, mapping regions of Mars, detecting the subsurface ice, and learning from the Martian terrain, and paving the way for its remarkable performance on one of the most hostile planets in the universe.

These extraordinary advances made by the Monash University rover and its powerful Jetson Orin Nano highlighted the relentless pursuit of creativity, curiosity, and the unrelenting spirit of human innovation that pushed the limits of the cosmos. The CUDA technology continued to inspire new generations, creating awe and wonderment and paving the way for unimaginable exploration and learning, all driven by the passion and determination inherent to the human spirit at MonashUniversity, and ultimately, the mighty CUDA on the Jetson Orin Nano.

[ Prompt: 38.4 t/s | Generation: 9.6 t/s ]

>
